== Automatically Running Tests

NOTE: Use sync: https://github.com/rustyio/sync

What if every time a source file changed the system would notice and
run your tests again? One of the best practices for unit tests is that
they should provide a very short feedback loop for possible
bugs. Ideally within a second or two of saving a file the system could
run the test suite and provide some form of visual feedback.

This will require a reasonably powerful computer, so it probably
should not be run on a netbook with an Atom processor, but on a more
powerful machine there are probably cycles to spare so that is ok. Of
course you can also do something like have this run on a faster
machine on the network.

=== Monitoring files for changes

In order to do this we need a few things. First we need a way to
monitor a set of files for changes. Then when a change has been
noticed we should compile any changed files and run the tests. However
it is not enough to monitor the erlang source files +.erl+ the
monitor should also monitor any header +.hrl+ files that are
included.  Ideally the system would also be able to show you what has
changed from when the last time the tests passed.

There are a few ways we can monitor the files for changes. If the user
is using Emacs we can attach a function to a save hook that will use
Distel to call our testing server and run the tests. But that only
works if the user is running Emacs. If members of the team are using
VIM or Eclipse we need something else.

Linux provides a set of events called +inotify+ to show you when files
have changed. There is a module for Elang that can be found on github
at https://github.com/massemanet/inotify that will let you monitor the
file system. But again this is not portable to the Mac or Windows so
we will skip it.

The final option is to just poll the file system. If we keep a last
modified date or a checksum for each file we can check every *N*
seconds for changes and run our tests. This is rather brute force and
lacks some level of elegance, but is reasonably simple and will work
independent of the user's tool chain and platform.

One way of doing this would be to use a Makefile

=== The User Interface

In addition the system needs a way to alert the developer that a test
has broken. This can be done in several ways. It would of course be
possible to have the test runner print a message to the Erlang
console, this has the advantage of being very flexible and not
requiring any other software. If you are developing with Emacs it
could alert the user via a plugin and Distel <ulink
url="https://github.com/massemanet/distel"/>. We could also create a
desktop widget with something like etk or wx-erlang that will display
an error. Finally it could report to a web browser over a web socket.